John Anthony West is really stirring it up
in this interview.
While many in the world of alternative Egyptian history
have ventured forth with the notion
that Egypt's great artifacts, such as the Sphinx,
are thousands of years older than history acknowledges,
John is saying let's take a look even further back.
He says cosmological and physical evidence
suggests the Sphinx may have been built by a very
civilized and advanced culture up to 36,000 years ago,
or even beyond.
Well, you're still shaking them up, I love it.
You against the world of quackademics,
as you call.
Quackademia, yes.
Quackademia, and now we're looking at,
we're going to talk about something entirely different
in a minute, but you're getting a group of people
together now, including the world of academia,
to start evaluating the Sphinx
on an entirely different level.
And here we're at the precession of the Equinox
Conference CPAC.
You're looking at not just jumping back from 5,000
to 11,000 years as dating on the Sphinx,
but perhaps as many as 36,000 years.
Can you talk about this now?
Sure, but do you want me to repeat what you just said?
You're going to be on camera?
No, they heard me.
Oh, they heard you, that's fine.
They heard me, you just go with it.
It's a complex argument actually.
But its barebones are that Schoch takes that 5,000 B.C. date
as the latest that it possibly could be done.
And we're talking Robert Schoch.
Robert Schoch, yes.
With the qualification there that that's the earliest.
It could be older, but as a ten-year geologist
and scientist, it behooves him to be as conservative
as he possibly can without traducing his own beliefs.
The 10,500 date is chosen by, granted my colleagues,
my friends, Graham Hancock and Robert Bauval,
on the basis of that's the last time that there
was an ingress into the sign of Leo.
And the Sphinx shrieks out Leo symbolism at you.
Of course, to the quackademic community,
the ancients didn't know about precession of the Equinox
as though there's a commanding ton of evidence
that says they did know.
However, the problem with the 10,500 date
is that the event now thought to be a comet strike
in somewhere about 12,000 or so B.C., 12,500
something somewhere around that area,
effectively started or triggered the meltdown
of the ice ages of the last glacial period.
And in so doing, pretty much spread or rained catastrophe
all over the world.
Tremendous earthquakes, huge floods,
torrential rains, all kinds of things of that nature.
And the Sphinx and its attendant temples
screams out, or let's say presupposes
a settled civilization capable of organizing
that kind of a massive logistical effort
with these giant stones produced in these temples.
And with it, the technical or the artistic expertise
to carve this unbelievable statue.
So it's very difficult to imagine there could be
such a society in the midst of what seems
to be global chaos.
So, taking as a given that the Leo symbolism is valid,
the last time or the time before that that the Sphinx
would have been facing its own sign at the spring Equinox
is 26,000 years prior to 10,000 years.
So you're talking about a ballpark date of 36, 37,000 years.
And that, however, implausible it may sound,
does correspond to the Egyptians own text,
their own chronological tablets.
There's two, there's the Palermo Stone
and the Turin Papyrus.
where Egypt talks about these long reigns of mythical
divine beings who ruled Egypt.
This of course, is dismissed out of hand by
the academic Egyptologists as though they know
Egyptian pre-history better than the ancient Egyptians do.
And those dates, when you compute them all out,
again they're fairly fragmentary,
they don't agree entirely with each other.
But they talk about a date
more or less 34 or 36,000 years ago,
which is when Egypt starts.
And that date corresponds closest to the Vedic texts
which talk about Indian civilization also getting started
somewhere around those dates.
Given the 5,000 date doesn't seem possible for it to work
because again, for a variety of complex reasons,
not going into where.
And the 10,000 date not working because
of global climatic conditions reigning at that time.
36,000 is the next let's say, plausible date for it.
And I must say, when we're trying to get this panel
of geologists to get over there now and settle this matter
of weathering once and for all.
And one of the questions that we will raise with them,
is look, this weathering that we see
in front of our noses now is extreme.
Do you know of any other weathering,
even on earth, that is as extreme as this,
this kind of weathering?
And if so, can we, even within broad parameters,
create a scenario of some sort.
Even however roughly, that the kind of conditions
that would be needed to produce this kind of weathering,
how much rain over how long a period of time,
or how quickly or whatever.
And so for me, it wouldn't even surprise me
if a date prior to 36,000 B.C. came up.
But for me, I would put my bets at the moment
at something, somewhere around that period.
Well now this pushes it for everybody,
not just Egyptologists.
Oh sure.
Are you standing alone in this?
Or are there others you are collaborating with
who are basically seeing the same thing you're seeing here?
Well, they're not disagreeing with me, actually.
And then, of course, Hindu people who practice
and follow the Vedas and Hinduism,
for them there are these gigantic Yuga cycles
that stretch back millions of years
where human beings have been on Earth.
And of course, the legends and myths innumerable,
both highly organized societies and tribal
or traditional societies talk about rise and falls,
the rising and falling of successive civilizations.
So, without putting dates on them,
yeah, it's not as though I'm out there in the wilderness
one lone nut talking about it ain't like this.
There's, let's say there's ample
textual or legendary evidence that would support
such a view even if there isn't any hard data at the moment.
What I don't understand is why such great
resistance by the Egyptian archaeologists themselves,
when if this could be validated in some way it makes
for a much richer story about the region
that draws millions of tourists every year,
just purely on that level alone.
People don't like to change their ideas.
And the funny thing is that I think that Zahi Hawass
who's now the big honcho and is now,
through a series of near miraculous events,
become quite, I wouldn't say a close friend of mine,
but a good friend.
Even though in public he's as adamant again
about all these new age nuts who are trying
to revise Egypt history.
Oh, you're telling the real juice though.
On a personal level, we get on quite well.
And deep down it wouldn't surprise me if he thinks
there might be something to it, because he's given,
not a verbal commitment, but a verbal,
a written e-mail statement saying that if we
put our panel of experts together, the idea is
to put a panel of expert geologists together
who are either committed to our side or just open
to the project, they don't have to be committed to our side,
we'll let the evidence speak for itself.
And then an opposing panel of opponents,
also geologists, there are a few.
But mostly the geological community is on our side.
They just haven't gone into Egypt to look
at the evidence themselves.
Then let everybody duke it out for a couple of weeks
on the Giza Plateau and look at the other evidence.
And see what kinds of conclusions they come to.
And my conviction is, I won't say my conviction,
but my,
my belief is that if the evidence is strong enough
and presented in just the right way, Zahi will turn.
Meanwhile, I've...
That would be huge.
A number of times to say look Zahi,
we're not taking Egypt history, we're trying to glorify it
to an even extent.
But, changing anybody,
look, changing people's minds
is the hardest thing in the world.
Anybody who writes about a lot of new age malarkey out there
that starts out with, this is very simple,
all you have to do is change your attitude.
That tells me that whoever is writing the book
has not done one second of inner work.
Because changing your attitude
is the most difficult thing to do.
Anybody can climb Everest.
Changing an attitude, that's work.
(laughing) You are right.
Mine, too, I mean it doesn't change easily.
Sure, now what are the larger implications of this?
That the Sphinx is now not 5,000 years old.
I mean, we've tracked that.
But 36 or 37,000 years old.
What does this mean to mankind?
Well, you know, that in itself, not such a big deal
in terms of, I mean if it's 5,000 years old
it throws all of history upside down anyway.
But yes in terms of there's a certain
what should we say?
I mean if you suddenly knew, I mean if the data
supported that conclusion that the Sphinx,
in all likelihood was constructed and the temples around it
around 36,000 B.C., it would provide a timeline
for advanced human civilization far beyond anything
that you would contemplate otherwise.
5,000, well that's close enough to 3,000 when Egypt rises.
36,000, that's when everybody is supposed to be
hunter-gathers and hurling spears at each other.
And no settled civilization, no science,
no architecture, no anything.
So it would mean that our history as a civilized race,
which has come to an end recently.
But our past history as a civilized race would be extended
back into the past.
And by extension perhaps even further than that
since you don't necessarily need the Sphinx
and temples to be civilized human beings.
You just have to be doing a certain kind of inner work
that connects us with our return to the source.
So it would be a big difference between thinking,
gee there were civilized people back in 5,000 B.C.
and thinking gosh there were truly, immensely advanced
and civilized people 30,000 years before that.
So yes, that would be a big thing.
Big tweak in the expansion of our consciousness.
It wouldn't lower the price of socks at Walmart,
but for those capable of thinking.
It would increase tourism to Egypt, however.
It would.
Which is good for you and a lot of people.
Well, actually this is something I had with Zahi
when we had our,
these quite friendly meetings.
Saying look Zahi, you may disagree with the theory,
but as far as the draw to Egypt, our Sphinx material
and that video, the Charleston Heston video,
was the biggest attraction for Egyptian visitors
since Tutankhamen's tomb.
And Zahi says, yes John, you are right on that.
How does this wash with another
of your favorite subjects we won't go into too much,
but Darwinism.
We live, complicated subject but,
we live in what I call the Church of Progress
which is a church in the most pejorative sense of the word.
It has a dogma which is that A, we are the most
advanced people on earth.
B, that civilization goes in a straight line
from primitive apes, caveman types with their stone axes,
to us with our wonderful...
iPods.
iPods, iPods are part of it.
Not necessarily the best part.
I mean the best part are the hydrogen bombs
and the bacteriological and chemical warfare.
And then there are the bobblehead dolls
and Disneyland and Walmart.
And as you said, stripey toothpaste.
And striped toothpaste.
All of these are the, let's say
the food of the Church of Progress.
And the Church of Progress itself
that's a part of its dogma.
The other part of its dogma is that we are meaningless
glitches in an accidental universe.
There is no such thing as divinity.
Sacred is a polite word for superstition.
Life is effectively meaningless.
And there are some wonderful quotes
Betrand Russell provided when I didn't have time
to do that this morning about positively reveling
in the fact that there's no point to human life.
And despair is the only thing, the only valid response
to the condition that we're in.
But like spiritual John Waynes and Clint Eastwoods
we stride into the future with flinty eyes accepting,
For what?
Accepting that death is our destiny and that's it.
Well, that's the Church of Progress.
And what backs that up, the underlying dogma
passed off as science is Darwinian evolution.
Which again is constructed in such a way, supposedly,
as science.
But it isn't actually.
It's probably the biggest fraud ever foisted
upon the human race.
And it's that Dawkins, Richard Dawkins,
who along with Daniel Dennett, I describe
as the co-commandants of the latter day Darwin-ugens.
These are the champions of meaningless, as it were.
And they insist on calling Darwinian evolution science
that's fueled by natural selection.
But this is the thing I have coming up shortly,
it will be on my blog.
I don't have it developed enough,
really I don't want to get it out there quite yet.
But effectively, when you look at the language
that science uses in order to promote this fraud,
you'll find that it is the exact equivalent of what
George Orwell described as newspeak in the political arena.
In other words, words are used opposite to what they,
words are used,
words that are in common parlance,
and that mean something quite definite,
are used in such a way to mean exactly their opposites.
And natural selection is the first of those.
Natural is used as a synonym for accidental, or chance.
And selection is used as another adjective,
or in this case what is it, noun.
Also suggesting chance or accident.
But if you look at those words, nature, natural
refers to the natural world.
And who says that the idea is to prove
that the natural world is chance?
They're taking it for granted as a premise that it's chance.
And that's like going onto a trial at law
and calling the defendant the guilty.
Start calling the defendant the guilty,
the trial's over before you start.
Selection, select, you select players for the NBA draft.
You select candidates to run for office.
The roulette ball does not select the number
that it's going to land on, nor does the croupier select it.
Nor does the wheel select it, anyway,
it is the luck of the draw basically.
So two words to select normally means intention,
conscious intention, choice.
So two words that mean, in the one sense, nature,
hierarchical, unbelievable hierarchically
precise organization.
And selection, deliberate or conscious choice,
are used to describe what is held to be an absolute
chance process.
And you look through all the rest
of the lexicon of Darwinian language,
you find it's also science speak.
It also has a value or a choice written into it,
biological advantage,
survival of the fittest, although that's no longer
even the Darwinians realize that's no longer appropriate.
But all of the rest of selection pressure,
all the rest of the barrage of baloney
of science speak that comes at us to defend
this fraudulent position,
buttresses the, in other words, that's what's behind
the Darwinian argument when to appropriately describe
the Dawkins says,
champions Darwin, because he says
Darwin made atheism respectable.
As if why should respectability matter
in an accidental world?
But what is its survival value?
Why should you care?
If it's the truth, why does have to be respectable?
Do you think this was his genuine point of view,
these were genuine belief systems or valid theories
in their own mind?
Or do you think this was something that was more
deliberately foisted upon mass consciousness?
Oh no, they don't know any better.
I mean, in other words, this whole business,
this is the religion, the Church of Progress.
This is the religion of the emotionally defective
and the spiritually dyslexic.
And to, put it another way,
nobody is surprised when the eunuchs snigger
behind the sultan's back and deride his passion.
But when they call their own tragic disability reason
and take over the palace, which is exactly what's happened,
the empire is doomed.
No, these people absolutely believe what they're saying.
They call it reason, but it's not reason.
It's actually the rationalization of their own
inner emptiness.
And it is supported by this
by this body of science speak.
They trip themselves up, Dawkins and his colleague
are independent of basically colleague
in making the most noise in the pro-Darwin
position is a man called Daniel Dennett
who furiously rebutted one of this critics by saying
science knows that it's all a series of lucky coincidences.
Now, even that has a value judgement written into it.
But if suddenly natural selection were called
the theory of lucky coincidences,
or some other set of words that actually describes
what they're saying, you know,
haphazard conglomeration,
hierarchically precise chance-acretion.
Some weird thing like that.
This is what they're saying.
It would have far less...
Well the whole thing would dissolve,
even in the public mind into the fraud that it is.
As I said in there, actually.
But this has had really a devastating impact
on the deep collective psyche.
That's right, it has.
As you say, this meaningless dance of life
marching toward death.
That's right, that's it.
And even those who are simply passively accepting
this garbage as gospel are affected by it.
It's one of the reasons why, underlying all the Walmarts,
and all the bobblehead dolls, and all the stupidity
that human life is today is this fraudulent doctrine.
So, the overthrowing of that doctrine is,
even though it doesn't look it,
perhaps one of the most important things that anybody,
or any set of people can do to reverse the pickle
that the human race finds itself in today.
I can possibly wish you more luck
in anything than doing that one thing
because I've never thought about it until I heard you
speak about this.
It has bankrupted us spiritually.
And it's a very strange thing.
And that's not to say
that you're a creationist either.
That's the whole point.
Darwinians all voted for George W. Bush
because they share his logic.
Either you're with us, or you're with the terrorists.
So, with the Darwinians, either you're with us
or you're a creationist.
The same fraudulent logic.
Why can't you be against both?
I am.
So when you're against both,
and why don't you articulate what you are for?
Well, that's more difficult actually.
Because, that really is difficult because it postulates
not a god up there who says let there be mosquitoes,
and there are mosquitoes.
But it postulates another level of consciousness,
of creative consciousness to which we do not have
normal access.
And that's the problem because in the Church of Progress
we're the highest conscious beings that exist
in the universe.
To all the other ancient civilizations,
we are in the middle somewhere.
In other words, there is an initiating force
that goes down through a hierarchy of, let's say,
organizing levels.
Actually this leaks into Christianity even
with the archangels and the angels.
And this is the same all over the world.
That's actually cosmology, it's not myth and legend.
Or, rather you could say it is myth and legend,
but behind the myth and legend there is
an intricate and sophisticated cosmology.
And so, just as we, we don't know this,
but we would not expect the cells in our body
who have their own kind of,
let's say they have their own kind of intelligence
and sensitivity to understand what's going on
through our heads.
I mean, I find it hard to imagine that the beleaguered
liver cell in the liver of an alcoholic understands
why he's so unhappy.
By the same token, we don't know what, Lovelock
was on the right idea with his Gaia theory,
but shied away from its mystical implications.
We don't know really what's in the mind of Gaia,
but the lower, the way hierarchies work is
the lower, the higher understands
and in theory controls the lower.
The lower does not understand, but can disrupt the higher.
In other words, the chef runs the restaurant
but if the dishwashers get all Bolshevik,
or I mean if they're treated wrong they will revolt
at a certain point and bring down the organism.
They'll bring down the restaurant.
So it's something of that nature.
In other words, very difficult to articulate.
Relatively easy to prove that evolution through
natural selection is a fraud.
Difficult to, and this is one of the strong points,
this is one of the cards seized by the evolutionists,
to say well if it isn't this what it is?
There are some things that by nature are,
perhaps even impossible to prove.
We just don't know and yet we know they're real.
But isn't the acceptance of the notion
that advanced civilizations have been here before
with these higher understanding spiritually,
may be a path of inquiry to begin to understand this?
That's exactly the path of inquiry
because that's why the past is important.
Otherwise who'd care?
But they provide kind of a template for how
civilizations should work.
When people know that we're here for a purpose
individually and collectively,
and act upon that understanding,
and this of course, is anathema to the Church of Progress
because the central dogma is that there can't have been
anybody as evolved as us and life is meaningless.
And anybody who says that it's otherwise
that we have a purpose, a really purpose in this lifetime,
sorry, in this cosmos, and that our job is to realize
that, our job is to realize that purpose.
That's when a civilization gets started.
So they are, as I said, for a variety of reasons
you cannot expect the eunuchs to suddenly,
to suddenly celebrate when something comes along
that calls attention to their disability.
Right, and yet you have this dichotomy here
where in those beautiful pre-dawn hours
where the energy is really saturated and rising,
you have people going to mediation.
You have the yogis, you have the Tibetan monks,
and so forth going into.
And you have the, even in the Christian tradition,
the coming forth and going into these hours
of self-discovery and exploration.
And connecting with the divine.
While the rest of the people wake up at three or four
in the morning in terror of their own mortality
because they can't figure this picture out.
Well if they do, but nevertheless if you're a eunuch
you can't suddenly discover sex.
So as I said, if you're emotionally defective
and spiritually dyslexic, it's not going to work.
What's your remedy?
What's your remedy for where we are right now?
Church of Progress, for everybody who's buying
into the Church of Progress, what's your remedy?
There's no real remedy other than to bring out
to make the knowledge as public as possible.
And hope that there are some out there
who are not hopelessly, I mean, they're let's say
emotionally slow, but they're not incurably
emotionally defective.
And you hope there are some out there who,
even while buying into the Church of Progress,
are not exactly eunuchs yet.
They just don't know how to use the equipment.
So, something of that nature.
Graham Hancock says pull out the power source
to your television set number one.
That's a big one.
It's a start, but somehow or another the alternative
has to be presented to enough people in the right way
at the right time so that at least some of them
recognize that they have to take action on a personal level.
And enough people taking it on a personal level
can lead to a collective level.
But otherwise, they're are a whole bunch of them.
Actually, I invented a class,
you know the Hindu caste system which goes
the Brahmas, the priests, and the artists,
and the warriors, and then the merchants,
and then the serfs or the servants,
and then later on I think added, regun,
these are the untouchables.
Now in this deep, dark age there's a caste even below
the untouchables, and that is the unoopadetias,
the Sanskrit word, these are the unteachables.
Nothing is going to reach them.
So the objective is simply to neutralize them
and to present an alternative to enough people
and hope for the best.
That's all we can do.
Signing petitions isn't going to do any good.
You're right, we're past that.
So when are you going off on this expedition?
Oh, with the geo-panel,
well we've got to put it together now.
And while we're on the subject here,
anybody watching perhaps, we're putting together
our panel of geologists.
We're looking for participating geologists
with the right kinds of credentials.
And if anybody watching is such a geologist
or knows such a geologist, they get in touch
and with a bit of luck some time next year.
The funding, would be nice if a friendly billionaire
is listening in and says okay guys, how much do you need
and here it is.
Not a hell of a lot actually.
There you go, any billionaires watching.
Or even multi-millionaires will do.
And then we'll go over there.
And then my feeling is that just as our mystery
of the Sphinx was a kind of watershed event,
that a successful report from the geo-panel
would generate again, massive publicity
and probably a sequel to Son of Mystery of the Sphinx.
And with enough noise, the time is getting close to right.
And with enough noise, intelligently directed,
and maybe things change.
As I said earlier, when ideas change, everything changes.
And at least in theory ideas can change in a hurry.
So we'll see.
If you would like to get involved in the expedition,
just click on the link to this site below.
Meanwhile, to delve further into this subject,
you may want to take a look at our interview
with his fellow Egyptologist and colleague,
Robert Schoch.
And if you haven't seen our first interview
with John Anthony West, that's also available
on this site.
Until next time, thanks for watching.